---
title: "Smooth Sailing with the Spielman Study"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Lab
tags:
  - Vulnerability
  - GIS
  - SoVI
  - Reproduction
---
For this reproduction, we were interested to know of weighting the SoVI components by percent variance would improve internal consistency or theoretical consistency. We could accomplish this by comparing Figure 2, depicting direction reversals and summary stats, of the original study and of the reproduction, which were weighted by percent variance.

Something my group wrestled with while working ont the Spielman study was using **Folium** to make an interactive map of the National SoVI scores. At first, we weere able to make a map using a **plot function**, but it took us a while longer to figure out Folium. What was interesting here was how we were able to achieve the the correct scale?; in order to do this while making a plot map, we removed Alaska and Hawaii. However, we did not need to remove these two states in order with the interactive map, as one could easily move around the map.
In addition to adding maps of the National SoVI scores, we made other chnages; we created an output table of factor loadings; we calculated the percent variance explained by each component of the National SoVI; and we reweighted the SoVI by the percentage variance explained of each component.

**References**
Cutter, S. L., Boruff, B. J., & Shirley, W. L. (2003). Social vulnerability to environmental hazards. Social Science Quarterly, 84(2), 242–261. https://doi.org/10.1111/1540-6237.8402002

Spielman, S. E., Tuccillo, J., Folch, D. C., Schweikert, A., Davies, R., Wood, N., & Tate, E. (2020). Evaluating social vulnerability indicators: criteria and their application to the Social Vulnerability Index. Natural Hazards, 100(1), 417–436. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11069-019-03820-z

[Check out my contributions to the study here](https://sydalexander.github.io/RPl-Spielman-2020/)

[Link to the GitHub repository](https://github.com/sydalexander/RPl-Spielman-2020)

